Release notes updates (#4918)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-dev.md

<h3>New features since last release</h3>

<h4>Drawing and statistics for mid-circuit measurements 🎨</h4>

* Mid-circuit measurements can now be visualized with the text-based `qml.draw()` and the 
  graphical `qml.draw_mpl()`.
  [(#4775)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4775)
  [(#4803)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4803)
  [(#4832)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4832)
  [(#4901)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4901)
  [(#4917)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4917)

>   Mid-circuit measurement capabilities including qubit reuse and reset, postselection, and
>   conditioning are supported.

Author: ```suggestion
  Drawing of mid-circuit measurement capabilities including qubit reuse and reset,
  postselection, and conditioning are supported.
```
@isaacdevlugt the addition is the ability to draw them correctly

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml

  def circuit():
      m0 = qml.measure(0, reset=True)
      m1 = qml.measure(1, postselect=1)
      qml.cond(m0 - m1 == 0, qml.S)(0)
      m2 = qml.measure(1)
      qml.cond(m0 + m1 == 2, qml.T)(0)
      qml.cond(m2, qml.PauliX)(1)
  ```
  
  The text-based drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw(circuit)())
  0: ──┤↗│  │0⟩────────S───────T────┤  
  1: ───║────────┤↗₁├──║──┤↗├──║──X─┤  
        ╚═════════║════╬═══║═══╣  ║    
                  ╚════╩═══║═══╝  ║    
                           ╚══════╝    
  ```
  
  The graphical drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw_mpl(circuit)())
  ```
  
  <img src="https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/v0.34_release_notes_2/doc/_static/mid-circuit-measurement.png?raw=true" width=70%/>

> 

Author: Still waiting on stats to be added, but this is mostly done in #4888

  [(#4832)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4832)
  [(#4901)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4901)
  [(#4850)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4850)
  [(#4917)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4917)

  Mid-circuit measurement capabilities including qubit reuse and reset, postselection, and
  conditioning are supported.

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml

  def circuit():
      m0 = qml.measure(0, reset=True)
      m1 = qml.measure(1, postselect=1)
      qml.cond(m0 - m1 == 0, qml.S)(0)
      m2 = qml.measure(1)
      qml.cond(m0 + m1 == 2, qml.T)(0)
      qml.cond(m2, qml.PauliX)(1)
  ```
  
  The text-based drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw(circuit)())
  0: ──┤↗│  │0⟩────────S───────T────┤  
  1: ───║────────┤↗₁├──║──┤↗├──║──X─┤  
        ╚═════════║════╬═══║═══╣  ║    
                  ╚════╩═══║═══╝  ║    
                           ╚══════╝    
  ```
  
  The graphical drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw_mpl(circuit)())
  ```
  
  <img src="https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/_images/mid-circuit-measurement.png" width=70%/>

<h4>Catalyst is seamlessly integrated with PennyLane ⚗️</h4>

> Catalyst, our next-generation compilation framework, is now available within PennyLane
> rather than a standalone package, allowing you to access the benefits of just-in-time (JIT)
> compilation in PennyLane proper.  

Author: ```suggestion
* Catalyst, our next-generation compilation framework, is now accessible within PennyLane,
  allowing you to more easily benefit from hybrid just-in-time (JIT) compilation.
```
Minor tweak - just want to avoid the impression that Catalyst comes with PennyLane, otherwise
why do we then have to do a separate install?

Author: Also want to follow the "everything is a bullet point" precedent we've been following in the release notes.

> To access these features, simply install `pennylane-catalyst`:

Author: ```suggestion
  To access these features, simply install `pennylane-catalyst`:
```

> ```
> pip install pennylane-catalyst
> ```

Author: ````suggestion
  ```
  pip install pennylane-catalyst
  ```
````

> * The [`qml.compiler`](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/code/qml_compiler.html) 

Author: ```suggestion
  The [`qml.compiler`](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/code/qml_compiler.html) 
```

  graphical ``qml.draw_mpl()``.
  [(#4775)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4775)
  [(#4803)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4803)
  [(#4832)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4832)
  [(#4901)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4901)
  [(#4917)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4917)

  Mid-circuit measurement capabilities including qubit reuse and reset, postselection, and
  conditioning are supported.

  ```python
  import pennylane as qml

  def circuit():
      m0 = qml.measure(0, reset=True)
      m1 = qml.measure(1, postselect=1)
      qml.cond(m0 - m1 == 0, qml.S)(0)
      m2 = qml.measure(1)
      qml.cond(m0 + m1 == 2, qml.T)(0)
      qml.cond(m2, qml.PauliX)(1)
  ```
  
  The text-based drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw(circuit)())
  0: ──┤↗│  │0⟩────────S───────T────┤  
  1: ───║────────┤↗₁├──║──┤↗├──║──X─┤  
        ╚═════════║════╬═══║═══╣  ║    
                  ╚════╩═══║═══╝  ║    
                           ╚══════╝    
  ```
  
  The graphical drawer outputs:

  ```pycon
  >>> print(qml.draw_mpl(circuit)())
  ```
  

>   <img src="https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/v0.34_release_notes_2/doc/_static/mid-circuit-measurement.png?raw=true" width=70%/>

Author: URL to be updated

  hybrid compiler with the `qml.qjit` decorator. A significant benefit of Catalyst
  is the ability to preserve complex control flow around quantum operations — such as
  if statements and for loops, and including measurement feedback — during compilation,
  while continuing to support end-to-end autodifferentiation. 

* The following functions can now be used with the `qml.qjit` decorator: `qml.grad`, 

>   `qml.jacobian`, `qml.vjp`, `qml.jvp`, `qml.adjoint`, and `qml.ctrl`.

Author: ```suggestion
  `qml.jacobian`, `qml.vjp`, `qml.jvp`, and `qml.adjoint`.
```
Mentioned further down

  hybrid compiler with the `qml.qjit` decorator. A significant benefit of Catalyst
  is the ability to preserve complex control flow around quantum operations — such as
  if statements and for loops, and including measurement feedback — during compilation,
  while continuing to support end-to-end autodifferentiation. 

>   To access these features, simply install `pennylane-catalyst`:
> 
>   ```
>   pip install pennylane-catalyst
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * The following functions can now be used with the `qml.qjit` decorator: `qml.grad`, 

Reviewer: condensed into one entry

          [-4.20735506e-01,  4.20735506e-01]])
  ```

> * JIT-compatible functionality for control flow, `qml.for_loop`, `qml.while_loop`, and `qml.cond`, 
>   and have been added.

Author: ```suggestion
* JIT-compatible functionality for control flow has been added via `qml.for_loop`,
  `qml.while_loop`, and `qml.cond`.
```

* `qml.ctrl` can be used with the `qml.qjit` decorator.
  [(#4726)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4726)

<h4>Decompose circuits into the Clifford+T gateset 🧩</h4>

* `qml.transforms.decompositions.sk_decomposition` method implements the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm for
  approximately decomposing any single-qubit operation to Clifford+T basis.
  [(#4801)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4801)

> * The `qml.clifford_t_decomposition()` transform provides an approximate breakdown of an input

Author: The second bullet point will eventually replace the first, we're just waiting on #4802 to be merged first :+1:
